[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The Isle of Lewis--
the largest island of the
Outer Hebrides archipelago
in Scotland.
In December of 2019,
and article was
published by the University
of St. Andrews that discovered
an ancient secret
in one of the stone
circles known as
Airigh na Beinne Bige.
Geophysics revealed that not
only was the stone originally
part of a circle
of standing stones
but also that there was a
massive, star-shaped, magnetic
anomaly in the center,
possibly from the result
of a large lightning strike.
But to add to the
mystery, scientists
stated that lightning strikes
are extremely rare in the UK
and the association
with the stone circle
is unlikely just a coincidence.
Could ancient people have
built these stone circles
in such a way that they
could control nature?
But what kind of power were
they trying to control?
Is it possible they
were looking to harness
energy or other dimensions
of consciousness?
If that's the case, could
harnessing the power of nature
itself control time and space?
And would this mean
godly power for humanity?
What kind of secrets lie hidden
within these ancient stone
circles that resonate
interdimensionally?
South Africa, in the
province of Mpumalanga,
is what some believe to
be one of the oldest stone
circles in the world.
The site is called
Blaauboschkraal stone ruins.
But an archaeologist
named Michael Tellinger
with an alternative
theory on its origin
calls it Adam's Calendar.
Here, we start our investigation
into the unusual properties
of these structures.
>> Adam's Calendar is what
I call the oldest working
megalithic sun
calendar on Earth.
It is actually a giant
machine left behind
by an ancient
advanced civilization.
But encoded into the machine
is actually a sun calendar,
is a circular structure with
two big stones in the middle.
Those are the megalithic stones.
You can see them as like sort
of two metal plates vibrating
against each other.
It is surrounded
by standing stones.
The entire structure
is perched on the edge
of a cliff a kilometer above
the Barberton impact crater,
overlooking what are several
of the most prosperous gold
mines in modern times.
It is aligned to the north,
south, east, and west.
It is aligned with the
solstices and equinoxes.
And it is also
aligned with the rise
of the sun across the
Horus stone statue,
or the Horus stone
carved bird, that
marks the rising of
the sun that looks
at three other stones to
the south of it that marks
the rising of Orion's belt.
So the encoded symbology
is very similar to what
we find further north in Egypt.
This spectacular coincidence
between Adam's Calendar,
Great Zimbabwe, and the
Great Pyramid of Giza
is that they are all aligned
along the 31 degrees east
longitudinal line,
which is often
called the Nilotic Meridian.
>> Adam's Calendar is a very
beautiful monument in South
Africa.
It consists of a whole
series of recumbent stones
in a natural position of where
they were lined originally
by nature itself.
But some of these
stones have been
erected to form what we
call a stone setting.
And there have been
different claims,
relating to the orientation
of these stones,
suggesting that they
target the rising
and setting of specific stars.
But the problem is that we
don't know when this was done.
It could have been a
few thousand years ago.
It could have been tens
of thousands of years ago.
And added to this is that
archaeologists do not
take seriously Adam's Calendar.
So despite the enigma
surrounding it,
there are many unanswered
questions surrounding its use
and purpose.
>> Most of the research work
that happened in 2008 pointed
us towards an age of
about 75,000 years.
And that was done by
various astronomers
that we've asked to
help us out with this.
But even they were
wrong because they
didn't take into
consideration the misalignment
with north/south at
3 and 1/4 degrees.
So something else
is going on here.
>> If this is possibly one of
the oldest stone structures
on Earth today, how could its
existence link to the other
stone circles around the world?
>> What we're starting to
realize is that these stone
circles are far more ancient
than we previously realized.
Take, for example,
Gobekli Tepe, which
is at least 12,000 years old--
the stone circles at Gobekli
Tepe, 12,000 years old.
This is before the end
of the Younger Dryas,
the end of the last Ice Age.
This is pre-flood that
we're talking about.
So who had the knowledge
12,000 years ago
before there was supposed
to be civilization
and means of humanity
to gather together
to build such structures
to create Gobekli Tepe?
The oldest holes at Stonehenge
we now date to 8,000 years old.
So these stone circles represent
a far more ancient and lost
technology and
are representative
of a lost civilization.
>> Adam's Calendar, it is just
another example of ancient
advanced technology and
knowledge of the ancient
civilizations that we know very
little about and their capacity
to create machines.
And this is what people
need to comprehend.
When we're talking about
these ancient sites, all
of these ancient sites,
literally without exception,
all of them were originally
constructed as machines.
They are not dwellings for
people or animals or cows.
All these ancient sites--
when you look at them and you
understand sound,
resonance, and frequency,
you understand
cymatics, it is very,
very obvious that all these
ancient sites have one thing
in common--
their original purpose
was to generate energy.
And so there's not
really a difference.
It's just a different
way or a different means
of construction-- having the
knowledge of sound, resonance,
and frequency, how to use
the natural frequencies
of the Earth, the
vibration of the Earth,
and turning it into
a very powerful,
energy-generating device.
>> If the knowledge of sound
had the power to transform
the currents of the Earth within
these circles, how did it work?
Gregg Braden explains
an important finding
at most of these sites.
>> When we look at the materials
that are used to build some
of the most sacred
sites in the world,
there's a common thread that
weaves all of these sites
together, and that is that the
stones that are used often hold
properties that influence the
human body in the presence
of those properties.
One of the most prolific is
quartz and the use of quartz
either in sandstone
or in granite.
What we see is a kind of quartz
that is called piezo quartz,
or piezoelectric quartz.
And this quartz has
the property that,
when it is stressed, when
it is put under pressure,
it emits an electrical charge.
This is the kind of
quartz that is often
used in what's called
a quartz watch.
So when the spring
in the quartz watch
presses against that
little quartz crystal,
it emits enough of
electrical charge
that it powers the watch.
This is what's used
in these sacred sites
because there is an energy
in the pressure of the Earth
pushing against
the quartz grains,
releasing that electrical charge
in a way that can be felt when
a human walks into the site.
I personally-- when I
walk into these sites,
often the hair on my
arms will just stand up
or I'll get goosebumps
on the back of my neck.
And I've done it
so many times, I
know now where this comes from.
So somehow our
ancestors understood
that there were certain
stones that emitted properties
that influenced us as people.
Today, modern
science is telling us
precisely how this
relationship works
and how these properties
influence the human body
in ways that we're now only
beginning to understand.
>> Yet other researchers suggest
these circles show evidence
of not only capturing Earth
currents but human currents.
>> There are researchers who
would claim that the strange
acoustic properties that are
recorded in stone circles
around the world might be able
to produce a tear, if you will,
between time periods and you
could actually travel in time.
Another way of looking at
it is through altered states
of consciousness.
It could very well be that,
through the acoustic patterns
that can be used in these stone
circles, some of these shaman
may have been able
to travel to the past
and to the present in a
sort of astral projection
or a remote viewing
kind of a way.
And in that way, maybe they
did serve as time machines.
>> So one of these
different technology used
by the Atlantean
was based on sound.
Yes, we've been
mentioning sounds about,
for example, the
capacity of creating
an anti-gravity effect, a
vibration that makes literally
every object to lose weight.
That's also probably
the reason why
some of the ancient
temples, pyramids,
obelisk of many different
civilization they've
been probably stand
or they've been
built, making these
gigantic piece of stones
heavy like a little plume.
So, in this case,
this sound is being
used in many different way
also to change, to rise,
or to modify the frequencies
of the planet Earth.
So this position of
these stones many times
in circle, stones that
they bend and align
to the movement of the
sun and the movement
of different planet, stone
circle that unfortunately they
are not be investigated
little it down below--
because if we're going to
excavate down these places,
probably we're going to
find some other element,
some other stones that they
are part of these temples.
But we can talk about
something else than temples.
We can talk literally,
again, like portals.
They've been created
as open temples,
if you want, as open station
to, again, travel into time,
to travel into dimension
or to travel into space.
That's also the reason
why they are perfectly
aligned to specific planet.
>> If this is true that
sound may help in the process
of dimensional travel, why
was creating these structures
in a circular formation an
important aspect of this
ancient technology?
>> When humans started to
understand how the universe
works, how the Earth was moving,
and how the stars were moving,
they understood that
everything was a cycle.
Because they had no references
in the world outside,
they used the stars to
focus like a reference
to travel to go along the world.
And by looking into the
movement of the stars,
by looking into
the sun, the moon,
watching how the main
structures that guided our life
were cycles, we kind
of knew that the matter
was a cycle, that everything
was bounded in the circle shape.
The way we saw the
reality moving the space
was through circles.
But suddenly, by the wise people
that were watching constantly
the skies and seeing how
the things were changing,
they understood,
also, that the time
was a circle because every
year happens exactly the same.
Even if the people
were changing,
the environment was
almost the same--
spring, summer, autumn, winter--
and the same stars
at every period.
And it was kind of
like if they would
see the future by saying where
the sun would rise at each day.
So they knew how to handle time.
So it was not just about space.
They understood that the cycles
were telling us about time.
This created the idea
that the time was a circle
and that we could move
through time as a circle,
that there was nothing that had
happened and that will happen,
that everything is just an
echo of just one only reality.
So by doing that, by
knowing, realizing that,
they started to build the stone
circles all over the world
to reach the consciousness
of space and time.
And they would balance
these stone circles
with the constellations that
they would follow in that
guide them along the year.
So they could see the future
by waiting for specific dates
for those stars.
So each stone would
represent a different aspect
of the time, a different cycle.
So this is why, in
every stone circle,
the gatherings were not
only in the present,
but the spirits from the past
and the spirit from the future
would guide the people.
And for us, that was the time
travel, not in a physical way,
but the only way that
the universe knows--
that is, the mind.
>> Though some suggest the
theory of time travel within
these ancient structures is
more a metaphorical reference,
others posit the idea
that physically traveling
into another point in time
may have actually taken place.
Maria Wheatley dives
into a mysterious case
that happened at Stonehenge.
>> If Stonehenge was
used to time travel,
then we look at the mathematical
properties of it called
harmonics.
And a harmonic of a stone
circle is looking at, say,
the inner feature of the stone
circle, the blue stone circle,
to mathematically to
the outer stone circle.
And there would be
proportions in that,
and they're the harmonics.
Now, when you have particular
mathematical harmonics,
they generate a kind
of background resonance
to the place.
So I think Stonehenge is unique.
It has harmonic after
mathematical harmonic
there compared to
other stone circles.
So I think, if it was being
used to interdimensionally go
places, then that would
be its key factor.
But more than that--
you see, Stonehenge
is surrounded
by military establishment
after military establishment.
There's 16 big army places
all around Stonehenge
and an important nuclear
biological center to boot.
And I was interviewing
two army officers,
and they said that they had
gone to Stonehenge on Track 51,
as it's called, to
have a few tins of beer
and to have a few cigarettes.
And they did that.
They said that they
were completely sober.
But what they noticed
was, from Stonehenge,
an amber light
came towards them.
Now, they're really
trained observers,
and they were looking
to where this light was
in comparison to the car.
And they thought, how could it
go from one point over there
and suddenly go to
that point over there?
And so, anyway, they
were intrigued by it
but didn't really think
too much about it.
They went back to
barracks, which
is a place called Larkhill.
It's only about a mile and
a half from Stonehenge.
And they were instantly
arrested by the military police
because they'd been absent
without leave for 48 hours.
So they said they'd
experienced a time loss there,
and what was going on?
>> If this is true, where else
do we see evidence of time
travel near these stone circles?
>> Stone circles around the
world mark the portals that
opened up at the beginning
of this phase of humanity.
Some stone circles were built
later as other portals opened.
But they are used not
only for ceremony.
The people felt that energy was
coming in and also going out
from the Earth to the cosmos.
Some stone circles actually
have both happening,
like Stonehenge.
The energy is leaving
the Earth, and the energy
is coming in from the cosmos.
And that's what makes
Stonehenge so powerful.
The ancients were
obsessed with time travel
because they knew the gods.
They experienced the demigods.
They walked amongst them.
They had interaction with them.
We've just gotten so far from
that that we don't remember
and we don't have that
kind of experience
in our current history.
So we have gotten
far from the gods.
But the people
knew them, and they
knew that time travel and
using portals and stone circles
and pyramids made
it all possible.
>> Right now,
Stonehenge, for me,
is the pinnacle
of stone circles.
There are many around the world
that have been discovered.
But Stonehenge is just
a very special place.
When you look at the
outer ring of stones,
you realize that they
actually are gongs.
And when you tap on
them, they resonate
at a specific frequency.
Now, these frequencies
can be harnessed directly
in the center of the stones.
Now, if this was replicated
right now, reproduced
right now, you'd be able
to transmit a beam directly
from the center point of
Stonehenge into space.
>> Whether these stone circles
were harnessing power from
the Earth or the stars, one
thing has become clear among
researchers.
And that is, time is
relative and harnessed
within a stone circle using
the energy of the Earth.
Some even believe it is
an ancient battery system.
>> Of the amount of time I've
gone into a stone circles
for five minutes and I come
out three hours later--
and I don't mean that lightly.
I mean that there's a certain
displacement between the energy
that's outside the
circle, which, by the way,
can now be measured--
these are experiments that have
been done in our lifetime that
show that something
happens within the area
around the stone circle, which
is different from the outside
than it is on the inside,
and specifically around dawn.
So I'm not surprised
that these areas, which
have been specifically
demarked on the land,
behave very differently
to the world around them.
And in fact, some of
them have been discovered
to be geomagnetic hotspots.
So if you altered the
local geomagnetic field,
you technically altered
the effect of time
and the perception of
time and your relationship
to the physical world.
So I believe that there
is something to that
that we're now discovering.
There are places in
Wales, for example,
where someone has been noting
that, when he talks to people
and he times them going
in, when they come out,
they seem to be missing
40 minutes of time
every single time.
And knowing that they all
mark the intersecting currents
of the Earth's telluric forces
and the fact that the stones
themselves were specifically
chosen for the constituent
elements of quartz and
iron and magnetite--
things that do influence
the human body--
you begin to realize that they
work more like accumulators.
The stone rows and
the stone circles all
behave like batteries,
accelerators, accumulators,
almost like a car engine.
They had their own
constituent parts.
And because of their shape,
they attract, store, and release
the energy at certain
points in time.
So if you happen to be
there at the wrong time,
the wrong place, if you touch
it and you ground the energy,
you'll get a hell of
an electric shock.
>> Stone circles were built
within landscapes that were
ceremonial in that there were
many other different monuments
around.
They were the hubs of activity.
And if you like,
the energies would
seem to have focused
around these rings of stone
and because of which
they heightened
not just the electromagnetic
or geomagnetic forces
of the landscape,
but these combined
to affect the human
mind itself to allow
human consciousness to go into
an altered state to communicate
with the ancestors,
the extraterrestrials,
and the intelligences of
a multidimensional nature.
>> If the intelligence of a
multidimensional nature was
understood by the ancients, is
it possible these circles help
restore our DNA so that we
are in harmony with our many
existences in nature?
>> When you go to the stone
circles, you're exposed,
whether you like it or not,
to the natural frequencies
of the Earth, very amplified
natural frequencies
of the Earth that make the
trillions of cells in your body
harmonize and
vibrate in coherent,
resonant harmony with the
frequencies of the Earth,
which is what we
should be doing.
We should be harmonizing.
We should be in sync with
the Earth frequencies,
not in sync and harmonizing
with the cell phone
towers and the computers
and the cell phones and all
the electrosmog that is
destroying our bodies
and the cells in our bodies.
So when you're exposed
to the stone circles,
not only do they bring into
resonant harmonic frequencies
with the Earth, but those
frequencies heal your body,
heal the cells, makes you whole,
and that also affects your DNA.
That's how far we've come with
shamanic revelations and people
that have got the capacity
to connect to spirit,
to connect to the ancestors,
to connect to the Anunnaki that
were the architects of this
and download this information.
And we've identified this
and had personal experiences
with people experiencing
this healing on a scale
that nobody could
have ever predicted.
So whether we like it or
not, the stone circles
are playing an integral part in
the global elevation of unity
consciousness that is
rapidly taking humanity
to a point of no return and that
critical mass at which humanity
will move into a much
higher consciousness
and we will escape this
Draconian enslavement
state of mind and state of
being that we find ourselves
in right now.
>> Could these ancient stone
circles prove the existence
of our multidimensional
nature here on Earth?
Is it possible that
ancient stone structures
across the world may have
once harnessed powerful Earth
energies, forming a gateway
for beings to physically travel
through time and space?
Were they simply
sacred sites where
rituals took place
and traveling was
done via one's consciousness?
Or could there have
been yet another theory
wherein these circular
stone formations opened
an energetic channel through
which information could
be sent deep into the cosmos?
Perhaps there is potential,
like some researchers
have suggested, that the energy
resonating within ancient stone
circles could be used
by modern-day people
to heal and repair
our own bodies.
If humanity were to one
day discover the answers
to the questions that lie
buried within these magnificent
structures, we may
one day reclaim
a technology lost to the ages.
Could this discovery open
a new age of enlightenment
for humankind?
Only time will tell.